[« Previous Page : Next Steps](7_Next_Steps.md) |
[Table of Content](TOC.md) | [Next Page: Open Platforms »](8_Open_Platforms.md)

## Definitions

**Open Standards** Open standards refer to file formats, protocols and
application interfaces that can be implemented by everyone (in open source and
proprietary software alike). Process for the standard's development is open and
transparent to all interested parties and cannot be controlled by any single
person or entity with any vested interests;
platform independent, vendor neutral and usable for multiple implementations;
specifications and supporting material are freely available with limited
restrictions;
supported by the community and demonstrate independence or approved through due
process by rough consensus among participants.

**Free Software** is software that respects users' freedom and community. The
term “free” is more a matter of liberty than price, as it refers to the users’
freedom to run, copy, distribute, study, change and improve the software. For
most practical purposes it means the same as Open Source Software, although this
is widely debated.

**Interoperability** an environment where people, processes and systems work in
such a fashion that the right information is available to the right people at
the right time to meet their business objectives.

**Open standards** a standard which is transparent, currently relevant, open for
participation, impartiality and built by consensus, available for free, and
maintained by an active community.

**Open Source Software** is software with its source code made available with a
license in which the copyright holder provides the rights to study, change, and
distribute the software to anyone and for any purpose.

**Open Source Hardware** are tangible artifacts — machines, devices, or other
physical things — whose design has been released to the public in such a way
that anyone can make, modify, distribute, and use those things.

**Version control system** software product or service designed to store and
retrieve several versions of source code and related assets in a consistent way,
can be centralized, decentralized or distributed.
